=head1 NAME

equivs-build - make a Debian package to register local software

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<equivs-build [--full|-f] [--arch=foo|-a=foo] controlfile>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<equivs-build> is a program that creates Debian packages which can be 
used to inform dpkg about locally installed packages and their 
dependencies. Also empty packages that just require other packages
can be created with equivs. These can be used as "profile" packages 
which just mark other ones for installation.

Please note that this is a crude hack and if thoughtlessly used,
it might possibly do damage to your packaging system. And please
note as well that using it is not the recommended way of dealing
with broken dependencies. Better file a bug report instead.

The control file has a structure like the control files in "real"
Debian packages, but it doesn't have to define all keys, as default 
values will be used if you omit one.

There are several additional fields that can be used:

=over 4

=item Changelog: 

File to be used as the changelog

=item Version: 

If you don't use a local changelog, equivs will create a
dummy one. As the version of the package is defined in the
changelog, equivs will assume the version 1.0. With this
field, you can set an explicit version.

=item Readme: 

A file to be used as the F<README.Debian> file. You can use the
strings B<@packagename@> and B<@depends@> to insert the package
name and the dependency information used.

=item Copyright: 

The copyright file to by used. If omitted, the GPL 2 
will be used.

=item Preinst: Postinst: Prerm: Postrm:

Maintainerscripts executed before/after installation/removal 
of the package. See the Debian developers reference for a 
description (package developers-reference).

=item Extra-Files:

A comma-separated list of files to copy to the 
F</usr/share/doc/packagename> directory.

=item Files:

Files to be copied into some directory of the created package.  Each
line contains a source filename and a destination directory,
space-separated.  As with other multi-line headers, all lines but the
first must be indented.  Example:

  Files: foo-cron /etc/cron.d/
   foo-cron-helper /usr/local/bin/

=item File:

Files to be copied into some directory of the created package,
specified inline in the source control file. The field syntax is the
name of the files to be created, followed by lines indented by 1
space denoting file content; leading space will be trimmed.  An octal
file mode may be specified after the filename; it defaults to 644, and
will be normalised to 644 or 755.  Example:

  File: /usr/local/bin/true 755
   #!/bin/sh
   exit 0

=back

See F</usr/share/doc/equivs/README.Debian> for more information.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --full | -f

Do a complete build. B<debuild> will be called, that is, a 
full package will be built and signed, suitable for upload 
to the Debian servers. 

The ID used to signed is taken from, in that order, the user from 
the last entry of a supplied changelog, the Maintainer: field in the 
equivs control file, or the local username.

=item --arch | -a

Build package for the specified architecture. Used
e.g. for building packages for hurd under linux. B<equivs-build> uses
B<dpkg-architecture> to provide this facility.

=back

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

Distribution is subject to the GNU public licence version 2.

=head1 AUTHOR

Martin Bialasinski <martinb@debian.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

equivs-control(1), /usr/share/doc/equivs/README.Debian
